Welcome to the complete intro to React.
I'm Brian Holt, and
I'm very stoked to be here.
And we are gonna learn how
to do some React today.
This is totally rebuilt from the ground up
from v8, so this is gonna be a lot of fun.
So today, you and I are gonna be building
a pizza delivery app, Padre Gino's.
I recognize that Padre is indeed
Spanish and not Italian, but
it entertained me when the designer
sent it to me, so I kept it.
So it's gonna have a pizza of the day,
it's gonna have a cart,
past orders, a bunch of really cool
stuff that we're gonna do today.
So let's hop into it.
First of all, I want you to
head to react-v9.holt.courses.
That should take you here.
And do you see here I have two computers?
Literally, this is my notes that I have up
here, but I shared them with everybody.
These are open source.
These are free, feel free to share these
with your team or with your friends.
That's totally okay,
it's intended that it makes it shareable.
So just to tell you a little bit
how the class is structured,
you'll see here that we have this
section here called Welcome.
And we have the lesson called Intro, and
you'll see that's up here
in the top right as well.
So if you ever get lost and
you're following along here,
you can always just look at the breadcrumb
there to figure out where I am.
Okay, so again,
you do not need to have read or
watched v8 this is just the the ninth
iteration of this course.
So just keep that in mind.
You can start here.
If you're learning React for the first
time, you are in the correct place.
If you're also kinda sharpening your React
skills, you're also in the right place.
So let's just talk about how I
wanna teach this course to you.
I'm a first principles teacher, the style
that resonates with me, and therefore,
it's the way that I try and
teach other people.
The idea there being we're gonna
start by writing React with no tools.
It's just gonna be like
a script tag on an HTML page.
And then we're gonna slowly
add tools as we go along,
as we hit barriers of complexity.
I do this because if you just jump
straight into the full tool set,
you don't understand what's
going underneath the hood.
It makes it harder to debug and
you learn to resent your tools,
because tools are complex, but
they also add ease, right?
And if you just get the ease and you
don't understand the complexity that it's
solving, you resent the tool for
the complexity that it adds, right?
So that's my methodology.
If you don't like it,
you're still stuck on this ride with me.
So bear with me.
Who is this course for?
I'm hoping it's for you, but it's for
people looking to get started in React or
deepen their React skills.
This should probably not be the first
time you're writing JavaScript.
If it is, there's some other great
courses on Frontend Masters.
There's ones from Will Sentence.
There's a one from me.
There's a couple really good ones that
will get you up to that kinda speed.
But again, if you're coming from,
I don't know, Ruby or something like that,
and you're really good at that,
and this is your first JavaScript,
you'll probably stick on, okay?
So YOLO and good luck,
is what I would say to that.
Node, there's no Node.js
experience necessary.
We are gonna use node a little bit
as part of the build process, but
we will not be writing any
Node.js directly in this course.
Okay, who am I?
I'm this handsome
gentleman you see up there.
So my name is Brian.
I've been teaching React and
writing React for a very long time.
My claim to fame is that I launched
Reddit's first React code.
You can see this tweet is dated to 2014.
I mean, very long story short,
one of the developers was like, hey,
this React thing looks interesting.
I was like, no, I don't really want
to write HTML in my JavaScript.
That seems like a bad idea.
And then I wrote it and
it ended up being awesome.
So then we ended up shipping it at Reddit.
That code base eventually turned
into the modern React front end,
which is kind of a fun story.
I wrote React at a variety
of large companies.
I shipped it at Netflix,
at LinkedIn, certainly Reddit,
and then various other
companies since then as well.
I'm now presently at
this company called Neon,
pretty cool company,
worth checking out if you like Postgres.
I'm a staff product manager, and
I've worked, yeah, also at Snowflake,
Microsoft, the other companies I
mentioned some other fun stuff as well.
I've done everything from be VP of product
to DevRel to staff engineer to tech lead.
I've kind of been all over the stack here.
When I'm not working or teaching,
you'll find me hanging out with my wife,
and my son, and
my soon to arrive daughter.
Lived in Seattle for
the past six years, but
I'm presently moving to Sacramento mostly
so that I can go snowboarding in Tahoe.
That's 90% of the reason why.
Feel free to catch up with me.
These are my socials here.
I think they're also on the footer.
I will tell you that I am awful
at responding to DMs, but
please do connect with me.
So I put a little note on
here of where to file issues.
If you have an issue with this course,
please file an issue on
the repo as opposed to DM me.
That way everyone can come and see it and
we can answer the question, and
I can know and fix it.
If it goes into the DMs and it dies in
the DMs and no one can find it later.
So that's why I kinda push people
to file issues or pull requests.
So that's something that you should do.
So how this repo works, so there's a repo
for the class you're currently on.
If you need to fix the notes here,
everything here is in lessons, right?
So it's all organized in kind
of the way that you see there.
And then the project that
you're on is this repo,
which I have up here open as well.
This complete intro to React v9 project.
Please go clone this if
you haven't already.
We'll be using it quite a bit, and
most importantly, the API is in here.
And I'll make mention of this again,
but please, already,
if you haven't cloned this, please do.
But you can see this goes in order from 0,
1, to what, 17?
Yeah, I went to 17 here.
These are snapshots at
various points in the course
that are of complete steps, right?
So if you go into 06, right?
This is a snapshot of what the code
base should look like at that point.
So if something's broken or you wanna
compare what you got versus what I got, or
you just wanna hop into
the middle of the course.
You can just pop in there,
run npm install,
npm run dev and
everything should just work.
And of course, to stroke my fragile ego,
please start this repo.
Click there, It'll start up there.
Makes me feel good.
>> Student: How much will this
course lean into the React 19
specific features like RSCs and
hooks and etc.?
>> Brian Holt: Good question.
How much are we gonna go over React 19?
So today, throughout the course
we're going to be using 18.2.
But you do see at the end
here I have what's next.
And I do have a whole section
on cool stuff coming in 19
that I'm pretty sure is
gonna be mostly stable.
And then when we do intermediate React v6,
it's gonna be all React 19 stuff.
Specifically, this course,
complete intro to React is
all about client-side React.
So we're not doing any Node stuff today,
we're not doing any
React server components.
That's all being saved for
intermediate React.
>> Student 2: What's your
opinion on the React team not
recommending plain React
anymore using Next.js?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
There was some controversy about this, and
we'll probably go over this more kind of
throughout the day, but
there's some controversy around that.
The React docs just go straight, just like
just use Remix, or Next, or something like
that, and they kind of shied people
away from using client-side React.
I think it's personally
extremely misguided.
I've been writing client-side React for
a decade and I've done okay for myself.
And the sites that I've worked
on have been plenty fast and
plenty responsive without any concept
of React server-side components.
My thought is that the React
team is solving for
massive enterprise problems
like Facebook-sized problems,
Netflix-sized problems, and most of
us don't have those problems, right?
Client-side React does plenty well
by itself, and so I think it's 100%
viable to ship client-side React without
even having a concept of Next.js.
I'm not at all disparaging Next.js,
or Remix, or any of those.
I also think they're extremely
valuable for what they do.
But if you don't have
those shape of problems,
then you shouldn't use that shape of tool.
I always get a lot of questions about,
hey, Brian, what theme is this, or
how did you set this up?
And so I just have a little section
to get that all out of the way.
Believe me, this isn't for
me, so not for you.
[LAUGH] Cuz otherwise I'll get
endless questions like, hey, Brian,
what theme are you using this?
It's I just use the default dark plus,
it's not really that interesting.
Anyway, so please, I wrote the course,
I think it's actually 20.15,
it might be 20.16, I can't remember it.
But anyway, 20.6 as long as you are Node
20.6 or above, you should be good.
I did try to run this with a Bun,
and it did work.
I'm not gonna say anything after that.
I didn't try it with Deno.
So if you've tried it with Deno,
good luck.
But it did work with Bun
the one time I tried it.
So you might try that if you are very
set that you want to use Bun, but
please probably just use Node.js,
cuz you'll probably have a better time.
My tools, Visual Studio Code,
I used to work on it so
I'm now obligated by
blood oath to use VSCode.
Firefox, I just like that there's more
than one competitor in the browser field,
so I've used Firefox for a very long time.
And then I use Terminal.app,
just the one that ships with MacOS.
This course does work on Linux.
It does work on Windows.
I'm not gonna speak too
much to those workflows.
If you're in Linux, I assume you know
what you're doing more than I do.
And if you're in Windows,
probably just use WSL2,
that will simplify a lot of stuff.
Dark plus theme, I use the MonoLisa
font with ligatures installed.
I left a bunch of notes there if
you wanna follow along with that.
MonoLisa is not free, but
I look at a font all day, so
I figured I was okay paying for it.
If you want a free one, I like
the Cascadia Code one from Microsoft
that also has ligatures involved.
I use the VS Code icons extension.
For the terminal, I use zhs.
I use the Dracula theme,
starship prompt, and
the CaskaydiaCove if you wanna
see what I'm talking about here.
This prompt here comes from starship,
and the fact that can say Node.js and
stuff like that, that all comes
from the CaskaydiaCove nerd font.
So I left you all of the links if
you're interested in following
along with the way that I did it.
But again,
it's such a common question that I just
feel the need to go through it first.